groovy-scripting/README.md, before:

# Groovy Version 3.0.3 Installation Notes

<br>

### 1. Provision of AWS EC2 instance for all lab works
Refer C01-AWS-Lab-setup.pdf file kept in devopsproject repository and in Classroom shared drive

<br>

### 2. Install and Configure Java followed by Groovy on Linux
Use the following commands:
1. sudo yum update
2. sudo yum install java-1.8*
3. Get the java installation home: find /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8* | head -n 3
   <br>
   (Usually it is found in /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.242.b08-0.amzn2.0.1.x86_64)
4. If we want to set JAVA_HOME globally, append the file: sudo vi /etc/environment  and source it as: source /etc/environment - **Global system scope**
5. Set for all users: do the same in /etc/profile file and source the same - **Global user scope**
6. It we want to set JAVA_HOME as user level variable and to be seen in bash, create and append the file: .bash_profile (or straight in .bashrc) - **This is bash specific**
7. Do either point **4 or 5 or 6**
8. Install zip and unzip utlities, if not present
9. Run: curl -s get.sdkman.io | bash
10. Run: source "$HOME/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh"
11. Run: sdk install groovy
12. Check the installation with command: groovy --version and also run groovysh to get the groovy shell
13. Installation is complete

<br>

### 3. Install Groovy on Wndows
1. Download and install JDK (Oracle JDK 8), if not present beforehand. set JAVA_HOME environment variable and add JAVA_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
2. Download Groovy SDK - https://dl.bintray.com/groovy/maven/apache-groovy-binary-3.0.3.zip
3. Extract in your local windows m/c (say, C:\groovy) - This is your install_home
4. Set GROOVY_HOME environment variable to the install_home
5. Add GROOVY_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
6. Check the installation with command: groovy --version and also run groovysh to get the groovy shell
7. Installation is complete

<br>

## 4. To Run the code - GroovyConsole
An out-of-the-box IDE is bundled with your groovy installation. This is GroovyConsole and can be found in $Groovy-installation-home/bin. Just type: groovyconsole in command prompt and it will open. You can run your code from there.

<br>

## 5. Setting up of a modern Text Editor - Atom ***[optional]***
Atom is a very good text editor capable of intelligent code completion and lot of other developer friendly tasks. 
We will use this to develop our Groovy codes and also generate DSL scripts.
<br>
Download Link: https://atom.io/
<br>
1. Go to File > settings > Packages > Install language-groovy package and restart Atom
2. Start writing your codes - save files with .groovy extension
3. To integrate your code with GitHub, generate a token in GitHub and use it in Atom to connect to GitHub directly from Atom
4. **To generate Personal Tokens in GitHub**: Login to GitHub > Click on your profile icon in Topmost left corner > Settings > Developers Settings at the left menu bottom part > Personal Access Tokenks > Click **Generate New Token** button > Provide a note / reason (such as, Used in Atom IDE grrovy scripting) > Check boxes - repo, write:packages, read:packages, delete:packages > Click **Generate Token** button at the bottom
5. Copy the Token thus generated and use it in ATOM. Keep this safe in some file as this will not be shown again
6. You can now do push/pull etc. as usual from ATOM directly

<br>

## 5. Sample codes
Groovy sample codes can be found in the repositoty - https://github.com/avikdeb/mygroovy

Commit message:

added Script package installation in Atom

groovy-scripting/README.md, after:

# Groovy Version 3.0.3 Installation Notes

<br>

### 1. Provision of AWS EC2 instance for all lab works
Refer C01-AWS-Lab-setup.pdf file kept in devopsproject repository and in Classroom shared drive

<br>

### 2. Install and Configure Java followed by Groovy on Linux
Use the following commands:
1. sudo yum update
2. sudo yum install java-1.8*
3. Get the java installation home: find /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8* | head -n 3
   <br>
   (Usually it is found in /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.242.b08-0.amzn2.0.1.x86_64)
4. If we want to set JAVA_HOME globally, append the file: sudo vi /etc/environment  and source it as: source /etc/environment - **Global system scope**
5. Set for all users: do the same in /etc/profile file and source the same - **Global user scope**
6. It we want to set JAVA_HOME as user level variable and to be seen in bash, create and append the file: .bash_profile (or straight in .bashrc) - **This is bash specific**
7. Do either point **4 or 5 or 6**
8. Install zip and unzip utlities, if not present
9. Run: curl -s get.sdkman.io | bash
10. Run: source "$HOME/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh"
11. Run: sdk install groovy
12. Check the installation with command: groovy --version and also run groovysh to get the groovy shell
13. Installation is complete

<br>

### 3. Install Groovy on Wndows
1. Download and install JDK (Oracle JDK 8), if not present beforehand. set JAVA_HOME environment variable and add JAVA_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
2. Download Groovy SDK - https://dl.bintray.com/groovy/maven/apache-groovy-binary-3.0.3.zip
3. Extract in your local windows m/c (say, C:\groovy) - This is your install_home
4. Set GROOVY_HOME environment variable to the install_home
5. Add GROOVY_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
6. Check the installation with command: groovy --version and also run groovysh to get the groovy shell
7. Installation is complete

<br>

## 4. To Run the code - GroovyConsole
An out-of-the-box IDE is bundled with your groovy installation. This is GroovyConsole and can be found in $Groovy-installation-home/bin. Just type: groovyconsole in command prompt and it will open. You can run your code from there.

<br>

## 5. Setting up of a modern Text Editor - Atom ***[optional]***
Atom is a very good text editor capable of intelligent code completion and lot of other developer friendly tasks. 
We will use this to develop our Groovy codes and also generate DSL scripts.
<br>
Download Link: https://atom.io/
<br>
1. Go to File > settings > Packages > Install language-groovy package and restart Atom
2. Start writing your codes - save files with .groovy extension
3. To integrate your code with GitHub, generate a token in GitHub and use it in Atom to connect to GitHub directly from Atom
4. **To generate Personal Tokens in GitHub**: Login to GitHub > Click on your profile icon in Topmost left corner > Settings > Developers Settings at the left menu bottom part > Personal Access Tokenks > Click **Generate New Token** button > Provide a note / reason (such as, Used in Atom IDE grrovy scripting) > Check boxes - repo, write:packages, read:packages, delete:packages > Click **Generate Token** button at the bottom
5. Copy the Token thus generated and use it in ATOM. Keep this safe in some file as this will not be shown again
6. You can now do push/pull etc. as usual from ATOM directly
7. To run groovy code directly in Atom - install the Script package from site - https://atom.io/packages/script

<br>

## 5. Sample codes
Groovy sample codes can be found in the repositoty - https://github.com/avikdeb/mygroovy
